The Joe Rogan.
Experience. On having, uh, five kids, but like, I'll do,
like if I talk about having five kids in New York city in, in,
at a show in New York city, people are like, you're crazy.
And then if I talk about having five kids in Boston, uh,
and I'm generalizing people in Boston, be like, you're crazy.
I came from one of those families. And if I do it in Utah, people would be like,
yeah, we are crazy for having five kids. So it is the same joke.
And it's the same point of view, but it's tweaked a little bit.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and it's so fun,
kind of traveling around and learning that material and learning
the impact and how it's digested. Well, comics.
Have a unique perspective on America because of that,
because we don't just go to these different places,
but we also perform material yeah. In all these different places.
So I think like we, I've been talking a lot with comics lately about like,
what was your reaction to Trump winning the election comics sought coming
more than most people who live in LA.
Cause most people live in LA are very liberal. Yeah. Very left wing,
convinced that, you know, this is even, it didn't matter who you voted for.
Hillary was gonna win California, no matter what. Yeah. Like we were,
this was a pro yeah. Democrat state. And when Trump won,
I, I ran into people that were shellshocked. They couldn't, I mean, I think.
Uh, I mean I was surprised I was Def I was definitely surprised,
but that being said,
I wasn't surprised by, um,
the, uh,
the logic behind some of the people that voted for Trump last time
that are sheepish to admit it now. Yes. Um,
I understood some of that logic,
but I thought it was fascinating cuz there was a time for me cuz I
tour with, uh, Ted Alexand a lot and he's like a I lot. I love Ted he's like,
he's like an occupy wall street guy. Like he's like, uh,
very progressive and we would tour and he would have during the
election, he would have some material on Hillary and some material on Trump.
And it worked everywhere. Worked in Texas, worked in Tennessee,
which I think is the most conservative place outside of Nashville. And,
and so it would work everywhere and then the election happened
and that same material and it wasn't just the context of the at post-election.
It was, I,
I describe it as people looking at the ceiling is that people didn't want
to hear it. And, and I think some of it is people like,
we deal with this all day, we need a break from it, but it was both sides. Yeah.
So like Trump voters were more emboldened kind of like that that's right.
And then also the left people were like, please <laugh> can I,
I just want to hear Jim talk about horses for 10 minutes.
Do you know what I mean? Yeah.
And so there is something fascinating that occurs and there's also something
fascinating about international shows because when Bush was,
when w was president, there were much more people coming up to me going,
how dare he, you know, start the Iraq war and with, with Trump they're like,
yeah, you probably didn't have the anything to do with that. Yeah.
I would say that's my takeaway. <laugh>.
Yeah. It's people are definitely fatigued. I think we have, oh yeah,
we have political discourse, fatigue.
It's never.
Ending, never ending. And it, if it is how much of is your life,
if you really stop and think about if you're alive for 75,
85 years on this planet,
and most of waking time interacting with people is discussing politics.
How much of it actually does affect your life? Other than those conversations,
those conversations. It's a, a, a giant part of,
a lot of people's anxiety, a giant part of the AR, but the real life,
like getting up in the morning, fixing breakfast for your kids. Yeah.
Taking 'em to school. How much does Trump play upon hard in any of that?
Not that much. Well.
I did, I did a CBS, uh,
Sunday commentary on how all conversations lead to Trump.
Like it's just, every conversation eventually gets to,
and then Trump did something like that. But it is, I, I was also thinking like,
cuz we, we live in this very pre curious time and uh, you know,
a very divided country on a lot of different levels and there's so much drama
and there's, you know, uh, you know,
environmental disaster impending and I, and again,
to my point of like, we finally figured it out,
this is the most dramatic period. But compared to a world war II, no, this is.
Nothing, nothing.
Yeah. This is nothing. I was in central Europe. What the like human beings.
Like we, I, you know, you know, and we were going around this, uh,
terrorisn this place outside of Prague where they stuck all the Jewish people
and with my children and my children who were like,
just wanna play on iPads were just mesmerized.
They're like what? And, and the takeaway was not, oh,
the Germans are bad and Nazis are bad. The takeaway is, oh,
humans are crazy. Like,
it's just a matter of months that these same people,
that out were your neighbors that you would go to their kids' birthday parties.
You were waving goodbye too, because you got their apartment. And I'm like, oh,
like it was terrifying. Like human beings. It's very easy for us to go. Yeah.
It was the Germans. It was the Germans that did that. You know,
it was the Lithuanians did it, but it wasn't,
it was human beings that were like, manipulated like that.
Yeah. If we catch the wrong leader. Yeah. Yeah. Like we right next to you,
that's that is a world war II helmet.
That's a legitimate world war II helmet in a bay. Andette wow. That, uh,
it's a good reminder. It's filled with little holes and.
There's apparently places in Europe where you can find thousands of those things
just scattered out there. You know,
there's areas in France that are impossible for people to go to
because there's so many rounds that have been shot into the,
the ground there and so much toxic chemicals and stuff from world war II that
to this day, they, they don't want people traveling to, I mean,
it's an enormous size, the size of Paris that's in France. Yeah.
See if you can find that, um, that's.
Amazing. Like there's also to this day from the forties.
So like when I was in Prague and you know,
you go on these tours and the punishment,
like they would just be like, and this, I also learned this in Greece.
They'd be like, they'd be like, uh, okay. So as punishment,
we are gonna murder an entire village. So we're gonna, and you're like, what?
And by the way, again, we can characterize this, this of,
because on the internet, everyone's gonna be like, gigan was defending Nazis.
That's not my point at all. The <affirmative> is just that human beings.
Like it wasn't that long ago when like rape and pillage was the go-to
tactic. It's like, all right, we conquer then we'll rape and pill. You know,
there were some guys that were like, you know, what can I just pillage? I just,
you know, I got a girlfriend now and I don't really feel like raping. Well, we.
Were talking about kirkesstan the other day that to this day, 20,
20% of all marriages begin in kidnapping, what? Yes.
20%.
So one out of five marriages started with the groom
kidnapping the bride,
like that's how they had to get married because he raped her.
So in order for her to, so its.
Romantic, they it's, it's, that's unbelievable'.
It's crazy. Here. It is.
The red zone in France is so dangerous that a hundred years after world war II,
it's still a no-go area.
There's all sorts of rounds and munitions and, and there's all sorts of,
I mean,
there's so many rockets we're fired into this area that this is still in,
in the soil and.
Everyone why, you know, this also brings up a, a separate point. Why,
why is this sursurprise well, like humans also have a,
really a real short term memory problem. Mm-hmm <affirmative> like,
we don't remember things. Right. Like I don't think people really, uh,
appreciate, you know, world war II was like 70 years ago.
Right? Like it was not that long ago. Right? Like even the, you know,
like Serbia, I was in de brovnik and they're like, yeah, up there,
the Monte nerons used to shoot at us and all those guys, you know,
now we go to their bar and you're like, what? Like that was the nineties. Yeah.
It's just, it's just terrifying.
It it's hard to believe.
But if you're in the wrong place in history at the wrong time,
like right now, if you're in Libya, if you're in Libya right now or Syria. Yeah.
Well liby's a failed state. I mean, Syria's horrible. You got Asad running it,
but Libya is no one running it. Libya. They're selling slaves on YouTube.
I mean, you can watch slave auctions in real time. Right now it's a terrifying,
terrifying place.
And it's because they killed uh momardafi and then the rebels took over and then
it became a felt failed state it's chaos. And this is right now in 2019,
if you were unfortunate enough to be born in Libya,
you are stuck there right now. And you're living in hell.
You're not living in Manhattan in 2019 where it's wonderful.
Jim gaffkin can hop on over to goham. Yeah. Say hi to Jerry Seinfeld,
do a set and have a meatball sub and you know, do whatever the you want.
No you're living in a chaos filled environment where Barb barbarians
running the show, and this can happen. This can happen.
And this is one of the reasons why our democracy is so important.
It's one of the reasons why compassion is so important and kindness and talking
to people.
And it's also important to look at things objectively and label things based on,
uh, compassion and looking at things in, in,
in an intelligent non-biased way to really get a sense of what the landscape
really is. If you are, you know, if you're,
everybody's a Nazi and everybody's terrible and white privileges,
white privilege that everyone's a criminal everyone's bad. No, no, no. Yeah.
There's real crime in the world. There's real terror and real awful things.
Right. And we have more unity and we have more in common than, than we promote.
You know what I think is it?
And I think this is also a reflection of the success of comedians
podcasts is that what people don't realize is that comedians
really appreciate a different point of view. We actually like,
we have friends that like, we don't agree with. In fact,
we almost find it entertaining.
Let's talk to this friend because I know I disagree with him and we can have
that banter. And I think that particularly in this, uh,
cancel culture, there is. And so like you get these comedians,
like you hosting these podcasts, having these discussions and,
and comedians have kind of like the, uh,
boldness to step in it and say, Hey, I don't know about that.
Tell me about that. Whereas like from a societal basis, there's like,
don't question, don't question, uh,
why we we're pursuing this because if you question it,
that means you're not a true believer and we're looking for true believers.
Whereas, and by the way, it's, it's just interesting because, uh,
I think, you know, I have a friend,
Tom Shalu who I love who's who has a show on, uh,
on Fox, uh, nation.
And it is weird cuz like six years ago and I did this interview and I talked
about it and, and I could see the interviewer go,
you you're friends with someone that works at Fox and I'm like,
yeah. You know, it's like, it's okay. Yeah. It's okay. He's not a monster.
Yeah. He's not killing, you know,
he's not putting children in cages''m.
Good friends with Steve Hilton. He has a show on Fox.
He interviewed Trump by my family and his family go on vacations together.
Nice guy. And.
It's, it's like, why? Like it's, it's,
it's this strange thing where I'm like,
I can underst and how important these beliefs are.
And I can understand how threatening, um, democracy is.
And I can understand how we have to face our history and, and all these things.
But it's like the discourse has to remain. Yes.
Doesn't it. Yes. We have to be able to talk to each other.
And I think that's one of the things that kind of died with the Trump election.
People were like you're with us or against us, you're either for him or,
or you're for the future and compassion and, and,
and caring about everyone or you're a monster and there's no,
there's no discussion about finances or the best way
to run the economy or international a trade. No, no, no, no, no.
You're you're with the good or the bad you're binary,
it's one or zero you're black or white you're one or zero. And.
It, that is the same thing that they criticized about.
W mm-hmm <affirmative> saying you're either with us or against us. Yeah.
Which by the way, being a father of daughters, you know,
is also a line from beauty in the beast. Yeah.
Right. <laugh> if it is it's true and appropriately, so right.
It's like very childlike like that, that perspective is very childlike.
There's a lot of people that are conservative that are very good people.
Absolutely.
That's I, I, you know, here's another thing that I find very frustrating.
I feel as though I'm sometimes, and sometimes I'll get, uh,
messages on social media and they'll be like, you know,
that some of the people that like your comedy are Trump supporters and I'm like,
I hope so. I, I hope that I appeal to a lot of different people.
Uh, you know, I it's, it's a very strange look.
I remember the success I had and I'm so grateful for the success that I've
had, uh, on, beyond the pale.
I remember like I came back to New York after I had done this tour.
And you don't know with standup, you don't know how long it's gonna last.
You don't know what's going on.
And I came back and I remember someone reading an article,
maybe it was in time out in New York. And they're like,
he's very mainstream mainstream. And,
and there was recently a New York times article. He's very conventional.
And I'm like, what is that?
Do you mean like conventional in that people want to go and see me perform like
a lot of people like, like you, like, that's like, that's a crime. Yeah.
Like that's, he's, you know, you know, it's like,
it's so we live in this age.
Like there used to be comedians.
And I think it's inhibited some people's success where like,
if it's like bill Burr, one of the best comedians today.
And I think people are, sometimes people in the media are like, you know, uh,
the wrong people might like his material and you're like the wrong that doesn't.
Do you know what I'm saying? Yes, I do. Maybe I'm being paranoid, but I'm like,
no, I get that from this podcast. It's, it's a very strange
it's it's, it's almost kind of a, I, you know, and I,
and I don't know if I've talked about this, but like, you know,
like there's this cultural revolution that is occurring.
That is it's well intended, but it's almost,
it's almost puritanical and it, and by the way,
I'm not somebody I I'm against any form of censorship,
but I'm also somebody that believes that if we can articulate,
uh, transgender terms that make people that are transgender or feel comfortable,
there's, there's nothing wrong with that. We can adjust our language,
we do it all the time.
But I do think that there is kind of this almost
puritanical thing that's ironically on the left.
That is what we, you know, as comedians,
we used to make fun of the right for. Does that make sense? Yes.
A hundred percent. It's a very strange kind of like, wait,
you guys are doing what you accuse these guys of doing forever.
If they don't see it that way, because they feel like they're right.
And if you're right, then it doesn't matter. And I do think it's well intended.
Yes, I do think it's well, I don't question someone's motive.